# DCRNN-SQR: Diffusion Convolutional Recurrent Neural Network with Simultaneous Quantile Regression for Uncertainty Quantification in Traffic Forecasting

DCRNN-SQR is a diffusion convolutional recurrent neural network (DCRNN) with simultaneous quantile regression (SQR) loss for estimating both aleatoric (data) 
and epistemic (model) uncertainties. The SQR loss in DCRNN is used to predict the quantiles of the forecasting traffic distribution. A scalable Bayesian optimization 
based hyperparameter serach [DeepHyper](https://deephyper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is used to perform hyperparameter optimization on DCRNN-SQR, a selected set 
of high-performing configurations is used to fits a Gaussian copula model to capture the joint distributions of the hyperparameter configurations. Finally a set 
of high-performing configurations is sampled from the distribution and used to train an ensemble of DCRNN-SQR models.

## Environment information

The experiments were executed on the [Cooley](https://www.alcf.anl.gov/support-center/cooley/cooley-system-overview) GPU cluster. Cooley has a total of 126 compute nodes; each node has 12 CPU cores and one NVIDIA Tesla K80 dual-GPU card.

* OS Login Node: Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.9 (Maipo)
* OS Compute Node: Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.9 (GNU/Linux 3.10.0-1160.59.1.el7.x86_64)
* Python: Miniconda Python 3.8

For more information about the environment refer to the `env-sc22.txt` which was generated with the provided SC [Author-Kit](https://github.com/SC-Tech-Program/Author-Kit.)

## Requirements
* torch
* scipy>=0.19.0
* numpy>=1.12.1
* pandas>=0.19.2
* pyyaml
* statsmodels
* tensorflow>=1.3.0
* tables
* future
* mpi4py

## Installation

Install Miniconda: [conda.io](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html). Then create a Python environment:

```console
conda create -n gcntf2 python=3.8
conda activate gcntf2
```

Dependency can be installed using the following command:
```console
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Download Data

The traffic data files for Los Angeles (METR-LA) are available at [METR-LA](https://anl.box.com/s/ptjgb2jcpf122jtooml5ew55x0ubibxq). The train, test, and validation data are available at `data/METR-LA/{train,val,test}.npz`. The adjacency matrix and configuration file are available at `METR-LA/sensor_graph/adj_mx.pkl` and `METR-LA/model/dcrnn_la.yaml`.

## Generate datasets 
Run the following comands to create the dataset with 100 hyperparameter configurations 

```no-highlight
mkdir data100
mv METR-LA data100
cd data100
mv METR-LA data00
for i in {1..99}; do cp -r data00 "data0$i"; done
python change_yaml.py
```

Run the following comand to create 100 yaml files based on the synthetic hyperparameter configurations. change yaml.py takes as input synthetic hyperparameters.csv, which contains the high-performing hyperparameter configurations generated by Gaussian Capula.

```no-highlight
python change_yaml.py
```

## Run the experiments 
We construct model ensemble using 100 synthetic hyperparameter configurations. We train 100 DCRNN-SQR models with synthetic hyperparameter configurations simultaneously on multiple GPUs.

To submit and run an experiment on the Cooley GPU cluster the following command is used:

```no-highlight
qsub -n 50 -t 12:00:00 -A hpcbdsm qsub_100uq.sh
```
where

* `-n` denotes the number of nodes requested.
* `-t` denotes the allocation time (minutes) requested.
* `-A` denotes the project's name at the ALCF.

